#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.8
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile requirements.in
#
accelerate==1.0.1
    # via -r requirements.in
aiohappyeyeballs==2.4.4
    # via aiohttp
aiohttp==3.10.11
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   fsspec
aiosignal==1.3.1
    # via aiohttp
alembic==1.14.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   optuna
annotated-types==0.7.0
    # via pydantic
anyio==4.5.2
    # via
    #   httpx
    #   starlette
    #   watchfiles
async-timeout==5.0.1
    # via aiohttp
attrs==25.1.0
    # via aiohttp
beartype==0.19.0
    # via -r requirements.in
certifi==2025.1.31
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   httpx
    #   requests
charset-normalizer==3.4.1
    # via requests
click==8.1.8
    # via
    #   rich-toolkit
    #   typer
    #   uvicorn
cloudpickle==3.1.1
    # via
    #   hyperopt
    #   shap
colorama==0.4.6
    # via
    #   click
    #   colorlog
    #   sacrebleu
    #   tqdm
    #   uvicorn
colorlog==6.9.0
    # via optuna
contourpy==1.1.1
    # via matplotlib
cycler==0.12.1
    # via matplotlib
datasets==3.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   evaluate
dill==0.3.8
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   evaluate
    #   multiprocess
dnspython==2.6.1
    # via email-validator
email-validator==2.2.0
    # via fastapi
et-xmlfile==2.0.0
    # via openpyxl
evaluate==0.4.3
    # via -r requirements.in
exceptiongroup==1.2.2
    # via anyio
fastapi[all]==0.115.8
    # via -r requirements.in
fastapi-cli[standard]==0.0.7
    # via fastapi
filelock==3.16.1
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   torch
    #   transformers
fonttools==4.56.0
    # via matplotlib
frozenlist==1.5.0
    # via
    #   aiohttp
    #   aiosignal
fsspec[http]==2024.9.0
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   evaluate
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   torch
future==1.0.0
    # via hyperopt
greenlet==3.1.1
    # via sqlalchemy
h11==0.14.0
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   uvicorn
httpcore==1.0.7
    # via httpx
httptools==0.6.4
    # via uvicorn
httpx==0.28.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   fastapi
huggingface-hub==0.29.1
    # via
    #   accelerate
    #   datasets
    #   evaluate
    #   tokenizers
    #   transformers
hyperopt==0.2.7
    # via -r requirements.in
idna==3.10
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   email-validator
    #   httpx
    #   requests
    #   yarl
importlib-metadata==8.5.0
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   numba
importlib-resources==6.4.5
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   matplotlib
itsdangerous==2.2.0
    # via fastapi
jinja2==3.1.5
    # via
    #   fastapi
    #   torch
joblib==1.4.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   scikit-learn
kink==0.8.1
    # via -r requirements.in
kiwisolver==1.4.7
    # via matplotlib
llvmlite==0.41.1
    # via numba
lxml==5.3.1
    # via sacrebleu
mako==1.3.9
    # via alembic
markdown-it-py==3.0.0
    # via rich
markupsafe==2.1.5
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   mako
matplotlib==3.7.5
    # via wordcloud
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
mpmath==1.3.0
    # via sympy
multidict==6.1.0
    # via
    #   aiohttp
    #   yarl
multiprocess==0.70.16
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   evaluate
narwhals==1.27.1
    # via plotly
networkx==3.1
    # via
    #   hyperopt
    #   torch
numba==0.58.1
    # via shap
numpy==1.24.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   accelerate
    #   contourpy
    #   datasets
    #   evaluate
    #   hyperopt
    #   matplotlib
    #   numba
    #   optuna
    #   pandas
    #   pyarrow
    #   sacrebleu
    #   scikit-learn
    #   scipy
    #   shap
    #   transformers
    #   wordcloud
openpyxl==3.1.5
    # via -r requirements.in
optuna==4.2.1
    # via -r requirements.in
orjson==3.10.15
    # via fastapi
packaging==24.2
    # via
    #   accelerate
    #   datasets
    #   evaluate
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   matplotlib
    #   optuna
    #   plotly
    #   shap
    #   transformers
pandas==2.0.3
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   evaluate
    #   shap
pillow==10.4.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   matplotlib
    #   wordcloud
plotly==6.0.0
    # via -r requirements.in
portalocker==3.0.0
    # via sacrebleu
propcache==0.2.0
    # via yarl
psutil==7.0.0
    # via accelerate
py4j==0.10.9.9
    # via hyperopt
pyarrow==17.0.0
    # via datasets
pydantic==2.10.6
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   fastapi
    #   pydantic-extra-types
    #   pydantic-settings
pydantic-core==2.27.2
    # via pydantic
pydantic-extra-types==2.10.2
    # via fastapi
pydantic-settings==2.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   fastapi
pygments==2.19.1
    # via rich
pyparsing==3.1.4
    # via matplotlib
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
python-dotenv==1.0.1
    # via
    #   pydantic-settings
    #   uvicorn
python-multipart==0.0.20
    # via fastapi
pytz==2025.1
    # via pandas
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   accelerate
    #   datasets
    #   fastapi
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   optuna
    #   transformers
    #   uvicorn
regex==2024.11.6
    # via
    #   sacrebleu
    #   transformers
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   evaluate
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   transformers
rich==13.9.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   rich-toolkit
    #   typer
rich-toolkit==0.13.2
    # via fastapi-cli
sacrebleu==2.5.1
    # via -r requirements.in
safetensors==0.5.2
    # via
    #   accelerate
    #   transformers
scikit-learn==1.3.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   shap
scipy==1.10.1
    # via
    #   hyperopt
    #   scikit-learn
    #   shap
sentencepiece==0.2.0
    # via -r requirements.in
shap==0.44.1
    # via -r requirements.in
shellingham==1.5.4
    # via typer
six==1.17.0
    # via
    #   hyperopt
    #   python-dateutil
slicer==0.0.7
    # via shap
smart-open==7.1.0
    # via streaming-form-data
sniffio==1.3.1
    # via anyio
sqlalchemy==2.0.38
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   alembic
    #   optuna
starlette==0.44.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   fastapi
streaming-form-data==1.16.0
    # via -r requirements.in
sympy==1.13.3
    # via torch
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via sacrebleu
threadpoolctl==3.5.0
    # via scikit-learn
tokenizers==0.20.3
    # via transformers
torch==2.4.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   accelerate
tqdm==4.67.1
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   evaluate
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   hyperopt
    #   optuna
    #   shap
    #   transformers
transformers==4.46.3
    # via -r requirements.in
typer==0.15.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   fastapi-cli
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   annotated-types
    #   anyio
    #   fastapi
    #   huggingface-hub
    #   kink
    #   multidict
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-core
    #   pydantic-extra-types
    #   rich
    #   rich-toolkit
    #   sqlalchemy
    #   starlette
    #   torch
    #   typer
    #   uvicorn
tzdata==2025.1
    # via pandas
ujson==5.10.0
    # via fastapi
urllib3==2.2.3
    # via requests
uvicorn[standard]==0.33.0
    # via
    #   fastapi
    #   fastapi-cli
watchfiles==0.24.0
    # via uvicorn
websockets==13.1
    # via uvicorn
wordcloud==1.9.4
    # via -r requirements.in
wrapt==1.17.2
    # via smart-open
xxhash==3.5.0
    # via
    #   datasets
    #   evaluate
yarl==1.15.2
    # via aiohttp
zipp==3.20.2
    # via
    #   importlib-metadata
    #   importlib-resources
imblearn
